How to install MS-SQL from scratch
Tasks To Be Performed:
1. Install MS SQL Server
Step 1 : Go to any browser and type 'ms sql server 2022 download'. Press the search button.
Step 2: Choose the appropriate link. Make sure the link must be of microsoft website.
Step 3: Click on the 'try now' button in the ms sql server 2022 window.
Step 4: Choose Developer edition under free download options that are presented in the website. Open the Setup file that will be downloaded after choosing.
Step 5: Allow setup to make changes to PC. Choose Custom installation option.
Step 6: Make sure there is enough space in default location. Select Install Button below.
Note: SQL Server Installation Center window will open automatically upon completion of installation.
Step 7: Select Installation
Step 8: Select the first option i.e 'New SQL Server standard installation or add features to an existing installation'.
Note: SQL Server setup window will be opened automatically upon selection. SQL Server Installation center window will stay open in the background.
Step 9: Select Developer under 'Specify a free edition'. Proceed to Select 'Next'.
Step 10: Accept the terms and condition and proceed to click on next.
Step 11: Select 'Use Microsoft Update to check for updates' checkbox if required. Then select 'Next'. (Optional)
Step 12: Ignore the 'Windows Firewall' warning. Click on 'Next'.
Step 13: Note : This Page won’t appear for those who are installing SQL server 2019. Uncheck 'Azure Extension for SQL Server'. Click on 'Next'
Step 14: Select 'Database Engine Services' and 'SQL Server Replication' features under instance features. Select 'Next'.
Note : Do not select any other features which may require additional packages
Step 15: Select the instance type (e.g. "Default instance," "Named instance"). If "Named instance" is selected, enter the unique name for the instance. Select “Next”.
Step 16: In the server configuration make sure all the services are set to 'Automatic' in the 'startup type'. Also make sure to uncheck the dialog box below. 
If unchecked let it stay that way.
Step 17: Select “Mixed Mode” radio button. Create and Confirm a simple password which will be used later to connect with Database. Select “Add Current User”. Select “Next”.
Step 18: Select “Install” button. Note: The Server will be installed in this window. Note: After Installation is successful. Proceed to close this window.
Step 19: Now Click on install SQL Server Management Tools. It will take you to SSMS Website.
Step 20: Click on "Free Download for SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS)". Your SSMS will Start Downloading (Size 677 MB).
Step 21: Once your Download is complete you can now open the file. It will ask for admin permission Just click on ‘Yes’. And then you you have to click on install.
It will start installing. Note: In the next window once the overall progress is complete your SSMS Installation is done.
Step 22: Once you get a close option you can close the page. If you got a ‘RESTART’ option next to Close you can restart your PC.
Step 23: After Closing SSMS Installation page or after restarting your PC. You can now search SSMS in your Windows Search Bar. 
And now Click on ‘Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio'. A window will appear once SSMS is opened.
Step 24: Change to “SQL Server Authentication” from “Windows Authentication” under Authentication.
Step 25: Type “sa” under Login (which means System administrator). Write the password that you created during Server installation. Click on “Connect”
Note: Once Installation and connection is complete you can start writing queries. 
Thank you 

Have a nice day !

Anirudha Kumar Sahu

 
 

